1) Besides preventing security attacks, what is a key reliability reason for input validation?
A. To prevent "database pollution" from accidentally incorrect data.
B. To make the user interface load faster.
C. To reduce the program's memory usage.
D. To ensure all inputs are stored in a single format.
Answer: A

2) What is the "whitelisting" approach to input validation?
A. Defining a set of rules for what is not allowed (e.g., <script>).
B. Defining a set of rules for what is allowed, and rejecting everything else.
C. A list of users who are allowed to use the system.
D. Allowing all inputs except those from a known bad Internet Protocol (IP) address.
Answer: B

3) Why is whitelisting generally considered a more secure strategy than blacklisting?
A. Blacklisting is much harder to program.
B. Whitelisting runs faster.
C. Attackers can often find new ways to bypass a blacklist, but it's much harder to bypass a strict whitelist.
D. Whitelisting can be performed on the client-side, while blacklisting cannot.
Answer: C

4) A web form uses JavaScript to check if an email is valid before the user clicks "submit." This is...
A. ...all the validation that is needed for a secure application.
B. ...a form of server-side validation.
C. ...good for user experience, but insufficient for security.
D. ...a bad practice that slows down the user's browser.
Answer: C

5) For security and data integrity, where must validation always be performed?
A. On the client-side (in the browser).
B. On the server-side.
C. In the database, using triggers.
D. In a separate, dedicated validation microservice.
Answer: B

6) What is a "regular expression" (regex) commonly used for in validation?
A. Encrypting the user's input before storing it.
B. Defining a pattern (e.g., for an email or phone number) that an input string must match.
C. Handling program crashes from bad input.
D. Refactoring complex code.
Answer: B

7) Why is it important to check that a numeric input (like 'age') is not an impossibly large number?
A. It wastes database storage space.
B. It is hard for humans to read.
C. It can cause a numeric overflow exception and crash the program.
D. It makes sorting the numbers very slow.
Answer: C

8) In many regex dialects, what does the $ (dollar sign) symbol mean when used at the end of an expression?
A. The match must end at the end of the string.
B. The previous character is optional.
C. It matches a literal dollar sign.
D. It matches any single number.
Answer: A
